
Elizabeth Zott hosts a popular television show, Supper at Six. She used
to be a chemist at Hastings Research Institute, where she met her
soulmate: Calvin Evans. The two met one day when Elizabeth stormed into
his lab to steal beakers. Their boss, Dr. Donatti, does not respect
Elizabeth's work and often hinders her research. Calvin wrongfully
assumed Elizabeth was someone's secretary, which enraged her. They met
again in the theatre lobby when Calvin vomited on her. After that, they
kept running into each other. Both felt a connection, but neither acted
on it until Elizabeth kissed him one afternoon in the parking lot of
their work. They started dating and soon moved in together. Calvin
encouraged Elizabeth to start rowing. They share their family histories.
Elizabeth had a brother who committed suicide. Calvin's adoptive parents
died. He was sent to a Catholic boys' school. Calvin always suspected
the school's mysterious donor, Mr. Wilson, was his father. Calvin had a
pen pal named Wakely, who stopped writing to him once Calvin told him
how much he hates his father. Calvin proposed to Elizabeth one day in
the cafeteria at work. She turned him down, explaining that she is
against marriage. He suggested they adopt a dog instead. They found one
on the street one night at six-thirty and decided to name the dog after
the time. Calvin died one morning while on a run with Six-Thirty.
Elizabeth had bought a dog leash because of a new law. The leash got
caught under a backfiring police car, which ran Calvin over. Elizabeth
learned she was pregnant shortly after. She gets fired for this. Miss
Frask, a personnel employee, is partially responsible for this.
[1Elizabeth decides to raise her baby, Madeline, on her own. Her neighbor,
Harriet, often babysits. Harriet is in an abusive marriage. Dr.
Mason-Elizabeth's doctor and Calvin's old friend-encourages Elizabeth to
start rowing again. Out of desperation, Elizabeth returns to Hastings
Institute. Donatti is relieved since Elizabeth has an anonymous donor
funding her project. She quits once Donatti publishes her research under
his name. She learns from Miss Frask that she has a donor. Both
Elizabeth and Miss Frask never got their PhDs because they were raped by
their thesis advisors. Elizabeth is furious when she learns that
[2Madeline's classmate, Amanda Pine, is eating all of Madeline's lunches.
She storms into Walter Pine's office one day to complain about this.
Walter is a television producer. He is struck by Elizabeth's beauty and
spunky personality. He calls her shortly after to offer her the job of a
cooking show host. Elizabeth takes it for the pay. Elizabeth takes her
new job seriously. From the first day, she treats the show as an
opportunity to educate women about chemistry. The show becomes a hit.
Elizabeth is unapologetically herself. She receives backlash when people
learn she is unmarried and an atheist. One day, Phil Lebensmal-Walter's
boss-summons her to his office to reprimand her. When he tries to rape
her, Elizabeth pulls a knife out of her bag. He gets a heart attack.
[3Walter takes Lebensmal's job. The show flourishes. Meanwhile, Madeline
befriends a man she meets at the library: Reverend Wakely, her father's
[4old pen pal. Wakely helps Madeline complete her family tree project and
even writes to Calvin's old school to try to learn about his birth
[5parents. Madeline includes the Parker Foundation-the school's main
donor-on her family tree. Wakely helps her mail the project to the
foundation. Roth, a writer for Life Magazine, interviews Elizabeth. He
is deeply moved by her life story and writes a favorable article about
her. An unfavorable one gets published instead, highlighting Elizabeth's
looks and ignoring her scientific achievements. Roth quits his job and
sends Elizabeth the original article he wrote. Harriet decides to submit
it to Vogue, who publishes it. One evening, Elizabeth arrives at
Walter's house only to find Harriet there. She learns that her two
friends are in a secret relationship. They all hug and cry when she
announces that she wants to quit the show. Elizabeth's last episode is a
success. Unfortunately, she receives no job offers in the scientific
field. Miss Frask eventually calls her to summon her back to Hastings;
the donor wants to meet Elizabeth. Elizabeth meets Avery Parker and her
lawyer, Mr. Wilson. Elizabeth learns that Avery is Calvin's birth
mother. His father died of tuberculosis. Avery was forced to give her
child up when she had an unplanned pregnancy. She was told her child was
stillborn. She learned later that Calvin was given up for adoption. Mr.
Wilson investigated the Catholic school, but he was informed by the
bishop that Calvin died as a child. The bishop wanted to extract funds
from them for the school. Avery realized her son was alive when she saw
him on the cover of Chemistry Today. She wrote him several letters but
never heard back. She is devastated that she never got to know her son
but wants to be in Elizabeth's life. Elizabeth reassures her that they
are family already. Avery fires Donatti and instates Elizabeth as
Director of Chemistry.

